Now that you went over why it's important to split a dataset array,
we will go over in more detail how to actually do this.
Let's look at the Notebook and walk through how to do a split of
a dataset at the patient level into a train and test dataset.
Then test those partitions.
We will use three tests that we went over in the lesson earlier.
First, we will check that any given patient ID is only in one partition.
Second, that the total unique number of patients across
all partitions equals the total number of unique patients in the original dataset.
Third, that the total number of rows in
the original dataset equals the sum of rows across each split.
Now we're ready to actually split the dataset.
For this example, we provide
the patient ID field and say that we want to
split off 20 percent of the data into a test partition.
Next, we will use the following splitter function.
Note that we get all the unique patient IDs in this dataset
and use that to split the dataset and create two DataFrames with the split.
Here is the transformed dataset with two partitions; train, and test.
Now we'll need to test using the three tests we mentioned earlier.
The first test checks if each block has patient IDs intersecting across each block,
which should be zero.
In this case, it passes.
In the second block,
the second test checks if you have a same number of
unique patients as you had in the original dataset,
and this passes as well.
Lastly, the final block tests to check if the rows for
the two splits are the same as the total number of rows as the original dataset.
This also passes.
Now that our split has passed all three tests,
we can feel more confident that our dataset was split
without patient ID leakage and with the correct number of rows.
However, this is not guaranteed that there might be other issues and you
should still create other tests as needed based on the situation.
Great. Now we've gone over how to split a dataset at the patient level.